---
layout: post
title: Crowd-sourcing Conundrum
subtitle: A Look into Google's Drawbacks

image: /img/crowd.png
bigimg: /img/crowd.png
tags: [Google, negatives]
---


Google has become a powerhouse in the area of providing hardware and software to consumers. Many of their products, including their abundant mobile apps, are usually free to download and use. This bolsters Google's immense popularity. However, their are loopholes within Google's grand infrastructure. One of the most noticeable and pressing issues is in the area regarding crowd-sourcing and user input to contribute to some of Google's software. For example, Google Maps, Google My Business, Google Translate, and Google sponsored traffic applications allow for millions of users to add and modify content, often without many restrictions or regulations.

Google Maps and its corresponding traffic programs varies slightly from how the other applications gather their information from users. While Maps can be modified using a variety of programs like Map Maker, OpenStreetMap project, Geo-Wiki, and Wikimapia, the traffic software continuously stores data from routes and directions people enter into the app. This constant tracking through GPS provides a constant stream of data that updates the app to provide a more useful experience. The actual maps in which the traffic software utilizes are primarily constructed through user generated content. The four previously mentioned digital map making tools all allow users to add new information or change preexisting information.

This feature can be particularly useful. For instance if someone notices that a street name is misspelled or certain locations don't show up properly, they can very easily fix the problem and upload the correct information to the Google maps software and the entire program is instantly updated. However, the lack of restrictions and regulations on who can create/change content and what can be changed is a cause for concern. Some contributors input fake locations and businesses that in turn increase the amount of lead-gen listings on the Google search engine. It also allows some users to simply create false content. They can change the name of locations, mess with directions, change street names and even their orientation on the map.

To counteract this problem, Google has employed a team of "Mappers" that meticulously and individually map out every street, road, highway and thoroughfare and upload not only the information to the maps software but to the Street view feature so users can see exactly where they are or need to go and can check to make sure what is displayed on the map matches up with what is really there. These mappers are not paid and have to sign nondisclosure agreements before they begin mapping. This is because Google knows that Map's security measures are flawed and that the system could essentially be called broken but does not want consumers to know about it.

Google's internal problems with crowd sourcing content raises a divide between the pros and cons associated with it. On one hand it provides the opportunity for data to be changed on the fly, keeping programs, apps, and software always updated with new and sometimes better content. On the other hand it opens the door for Internet trolls and scammers who often mean to cause harm using the Web.

One of the most well known sites that relies almost entirely on user created content is Wikipedia. All of Wikipedia's articles can be edited with a simple click of a button by anyone at anytime. While the majority of its contributors strive to maintain a level of integrity in what they add, some put in false information that may confuse some individuals looking for research or facts about a subject. This is why Wikipedia is considered an "unreliable" source, because you really never know the source of the information and who put it there.

Conclusively, it is clear that Google is dabbling in some risky business with some of their applications. Without proper regulations placed on these apps, it can be inferred that false information will still be updated to the programs for the foreseeable future. However it is not entirely feasible to blame Google for every loophole in their system. They, as a company, decided it would be in their best interest to allow anybody and everybody to update their apps with fresh, original content. It is a bold choice and one that can work, albeit with the proper security measures in place. Let's hope that Google can maintain its level of respect as a software and mobile app developer by finding ways to make some of its systems safer and more secure for its users and its contributors.


References:
https://thetranslationcompany.com/news/blog/translation-news/google-crowdsourcing-improve-google-translate/
https://sites.google.com/site/mapmakerpedia/maps-101/collaborative-mapping-crowdsourcing
http://www.businessinsider.com/how-google-maps-knows-about-traffic-2015-11
https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/31/business/fake-online-locksmiths-may-be-out-to-pick-your-pocket-too.html?_r=0     
