---
layout: post
title: The Classroom of the Future   
subtitle: Is Keeping Classrooms Up to Date With the Latest Tech Beneficial for Students?

image: /img/chalkboard.jpg
bigimg: /img/chalkboard.jpg
tags: [modern tech, education, classroom]
---
TL;DR-- The use of technology in the classroom can create stimulating and interactive learning environments for students, but do schools really look into the drawbacks? Does having technology and more importantly, the Internet, in the classroom aid or hinder students learning capabilities?


When discussing the topic of technology use in our everyday lives, it can be said that our reliance on technology has made our lives easier and more productive. However, there are some that would argue that technology, in certain circumstances, is more detrimental than it is helpful. This argument can be applied to the use of different forms of technology in schools. The shift to rely more heavily on technology in the classroom and on assignments has its challenges and the end result is a mixed bag.

There are many issues facing both students and teachers when trying to incorporate new and shifting technologies into curriculum. Some of these include students relying on technology too much when completing assignments, technology glitches and computer/network crashes, teacher disapproval of technology, and on-line distractions. Studies have also found that using technology as an aide in the classroom makes little to no difference on academic achievement of students.

The first problem is one that is relatively difficult to counteract, which is the challenge of limiting how much students rely on technology and mostly the Internet to help them with their school work. Nowadays, almost everyone has either access to the Internet from home or owns a mobile device that has an Internet connection. This enables an individual to almost instantly look up an answer to a question or a solution to a pressing problem. While a teacher might be able to control the individual use of the Internet when students are in class, they have no control when the students leave. For all they know, the students may simply Google all of the answers.

Another problem is the likely probability that at some point, technology will fail, break, or not work as originally intended. Many students who have either doing research or wrote a paper using an electronic word processor have encountered problems like their work not saving correctly or their computer/network crashes in the middle of their work. This might also happen in the classroom if the school or the school’s IT department doesn’t have the necessary resources or have taken the proper precautions to prevent network crashes and Internet connectivity issues. This issue can be remedied by allowing students to save their work in the Cloud. Therefore, if the school computers ever crash, their work is still saved and can be accessed from any device, from anywhere.
Some teachers may also struggle to implement technology properly into their lesson plans. Some might argue that their own methods, with or without using technology in some way, better suite the needs of students are help the students learn more efficiently than compared to other forms of teaching. Some schools, to keep up with the changing world around them, are pushing teachers and professors to incorporate technology into their lessons. Since schools are forcing teacher’s hands, many find it difficult to change the way they teach or come up with entirely new ways to teach in order to fit within the school policies. Proper training is required when new technology is introduced as well, and some schools simply lack the time and resources(primarily money) to provide the proper training for their staff. Consequently, teachers cannot utilize technology to its full potential and lose out on many creative and interactive learning opportunities for their students.

Another drawback of allow technology with Internet access in the classroom is that students could get easily distracted from their work at hand and may spend the majority of their time partaking in a variety of other things like surfing the web, playing games, or looking through their social media. Again, like the first issue raised, it is hard to monitor every student to make sure they stay on task and even harder to keep track of what they do outside of the classroom. School networks could have systems in place that block websites that are not deemed to be suitable for an academic environment. Many schools already have systems like this in place and in most cases they block the majority of sites that could distract students from their work.

Ironically, considering so many schools seem to be hopping on the “new tech for classes” bandwagon, many turn a blind eye to whether or not technology in the classroom actually helps students in the long run. Research and studies have shown that even though introducing different forms of technology into education, the academic performance of students remains almost identical when compared to students who did not use technology in their learning environments.

In conclusion, schools face many challenges when attempting to incorporate technology into their everyday education structure. The successful application and implementation of educational technology requires a great deal of time, effort, and resources and is definitely a risk taken by the school and/or school system. However with careful planning, the use of modern technology in the classroom can allow teachers and students to interact on a level not possible before and make learning fun and interactive for many students.
